entries/atlantis.md, before:

# Atlantis

- Home: https://www.prankster.com/project/, https://web.archive.org/web/20151024232821/https://sourceforge.net/projects/atlantis/, https://web.archive.org/web/20140516211231/http://www.atlantis-pbem.org/
- Media: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atlantis_PbeM
- State: mature, inactive since 2016
- Keyword: framework
- Code repository: https://github.com/Atlantis-PBEM/Atlantis.git (@created 2011, @stars 53, @forks 37), https://svn.code.sf.net/p/atlantis/code (svn)
- Code language: C++
- Code license: GPL-2.0
- Developer: Artem Trytiak, Enno Rehling, JT Traub, Loria, Loriaki, Stephen Baillie, T Gerigk

PBEM Game engine which is used to create many different strategy wargames today and for the past decade.
Game engine? Implementations?

See also:
[Atlantis Little Helper](https://sourceforge.net/projects/alh/), [Dev group](https://web.archive.org/web/20201214185644/https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/atlantisdev/info), [Atlantis 1.0](https://github.com/ennorehling/atlantis).

https://github.com/essenbee/atlantis, https://github.com/AtlaClient/AtlaClient

## Building

Commit message:

additions from osgameclones, some platform type entries moved to games (because they were games) or game engine

entries/atlantis.md, after:

# Atlantis

- Home: https://www.prankster.com/project/, https://web.archive.org/web/20151024232821/https://sourceforge.net/projects/atlantis/, https://web.archive.org/web/20140516211231/http://www.atlantis-pbem.org/
- Media: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atlantis_PbeM
- State: mature, inactive since 2016
- Keyword: game engine, strategy
- Code repository: https://github.com/Atlantis-PBEM/Atlantis.git (@created 2011, @stars 53, @forks 37), https://svn.code.sf.net/p/atlantis/code (svn)
- Code language: C++
- Code license: GPL-2.0
- Developer: Artem Trytiak, Enno Rehling, JT Traub, Loria, Loriaki, Stephen Baillie, T Gerigk

PBEM Game engine which is used to create many different strategy wargames today and for the past decade.
Game engine or game or both? Implementations? Entries for developed games or at least links?

See also:
[Atlantis Little Helper](https://sourceforge.net/projects/alh/), [Dev group](https://web.archive.org/web/20201214185644/https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/atlantisdev/info), [Atlantis 1.0](https://github.com/ennorehling/atlantis).

https://github.com/essenbee/atlantis, https://github.com/AtlaClient/AtlaClient

## Building
